On the categories screen we want to make sure that our item can be touched there.
So I will import touchable and I will import touchable opacity here to have a slight opacity effect
but of course is up to you.
Which pattern of which component you use.
There should be a touchable component though which you wrap around your item here and now on touchable
opacity.
I'll add on press so that we can do something when this swell is pressed.
What do we want to do.
We want to go to the category meals screen which is kind of the detail page for a chosen category to
show all recipes for that category.
We have no recipes yet but I still want to go to the page already.
So therefore here we need to trigger a navigation action and previously we did this with props navigation
navigate right.
The problem is we don't have props available here because we're inside of the render grid item function
which is outside of our component.
Now we can simply moved is inside of our component to fix this problem.
If we create that function in there then we do have access to props because we're now inside of our
component function and now we'll be able to call navigate here we can call navigate and I want to go
to a room name and of course the root name I want to go to you can be found in our navigator is category
meals right because we want to load all meals for the chosen category.
So we go to category meals here and if we add does and we save this we've seen our styling is a bit
broken I'll fix this in a second but the navigation works.
We also have to zoom past you facts that's working now fixing the styling is easy we just lost it because
I wrapped touchable opacity around my view.
We just need to add this style here which adds the margin around our items on two touchable opacity
instead of tip that you here with Dad we got that style back and does this now working as it should.
The more interesting question is how we can actually set our header title and for that we get a couple
of options.
Let's have a look at option number one on every react component which you'll load as a screen.
Which means what you map to such a screen name in for example the stack navigator you can add a prop..
Now keep in mind that categories screen is of course a react component but technically it's a javascript
function right.
It's a function that receives the props argument and then runs this body which returns some today as
X and therefore reacts able to use this as a component.
But technically it's a javascript function.
Now JavaScript functions are just objects.
That's javascript.
Functions are objects and on objects we can add properties so categories screen is just a javascript
object.
Hence we can add a property after creating it.
So here after defining our categories screen function and therefore this object we can access it and
we can add a property with a dot notation that's how javascript works you can simply add such a private
property.
Now you can add a special property here for which react navigation will look and that's the navigation
options property.
You don't have to edit and that won't be a problem if you don't do it.
We haven't done it thus far but you can edit if you do edit it will be respected by react navigation
that there are a bunch of options you can set up there and a full list can of course be found in the
official docs.
In the simplest form you simply assign a javascript object here with well that bunch of options you
can now set up and does object and the object I'm interested in here is the header title.
Dad can simply be set to a text for example meal categories because we're on the categories screen so
Dad would be a fitting title if we save this.
You now see meal categories as a title here in the header.
Now you also can style the header here with the help of the header style property.
This takes a style object where you can generally set up what you can set up as style on use as well.
And there you could add a background color which is the most common style you typically apply.
Now I want to set up a color here and I'll use an approach I used early on of course already.
I'll add a constants folder and in there I'll add colors dot J as file in which all then export a javascript
object where all the colors I want to use over and over again in the app are setup.
They're all set of a primary color for which I preselected a hex code for a 1 4 8 C but of course you
can experiment with different colors if you want to and I'll set up an accent color or a secondary color
which tax code is F F 6 f 0 0.
These are just the colors I picked as I mentioned you can use different ones of course back in the category
screen.
I now want to use colors and for this you need to import it import colors with a capital C which is
just a convention I'm using to indicate that this is a constant from constants colors all the name of
the capital C. And then here we use colors that primary color for example if you do this you will see
that your header now has this dark purple color which I picked that makes the title a bit hard to read
but thankfully you can style this is as well not with the header style because that's just the that
the box for the header so to say not its content but the title can be styled with the header tint color
and again the official docs is the place where you can learn all about these available options.
That's how I know about them.
That's where you would read about them.
No header tint color can always be a color for example white here simply which fits my default color.
And now you see this is white you of course might also want a different look for Android and I guess
you might want to look where this looks more IWC ish.
Which means you don't have a colored collar background but just a text is colored and you can achieve
this with the good old platform API which you learned about early on of course we can use the platform
API to dynamically switch which colors we use here based on the platform our app is running on.
So here for the background color we can use platform OS and see whether debts Android.
In which case I want to use the primary color else and this ternary expression I'll use no color.
So we can use y2 for example in normal white background or simply set up no color at all like this and
you will then get the default background color and for a 10 color it's the same I check if the operating
system is Android in which the text color should be white.
Otherwise I will set this to colors primary color with that you now have does more I guess that more
IOW typical look here on our and you have to default android look which is more colorful on Android.
So that's how you can set up navigation options here.
Now what about this screen however where we go to our details here to the Italian meals or to the quick
and easy meals would be nice if we could see quick and easy here or Italian here in the header in that
case.
So that's the next thing we should take care of and for this we need to pass some information from this
screen to this screen so we'll have a look at how that works in the next video.